---
layout: post
date:   2018-04-29 08:00:00
author: Yoshi Yoshitani
title: How to Price Commissions
summary: >-
  How much should you charge for commissions? Are your prices too low?
  How do you find good clients? Yoshi Yoshitani answers these
  questions and more!

---

*This post originally appeared on Twitter---read the [original thread
here][original].*

Okay everyone, I know this is a hard topic, but we really have to talk
about commission prices. 

Broad starting statement: you're probably charging too little for what
you're offering. 

Okay, let's get into this a little more.

## Price your time, not yourself

Pretty often I see beautiful pieces with insanely low price tags. So
how do you pick a good price?

When calculating a good price, I often have to step back from the
emotional "What am *I* worth?" and consider the logical "What is my
time worth?" This separation works for me

When considering commission prices from an emotional angle, it's so
easy to get caught up in a spiral of "I'm not THAT good..." "So and So
is Better than me..." "But this artists charges so much less" "I'm not
big enough to ask for more.." "I'm still learning". Don't think this
way.

Instead, commission prices need to be logical. Consider how much time
it takes to make a piece, how much do materials cost. How much time is
spent communicating with the client. How much additional research
you'll have to do. How many sketches. What you're giving up to draw
this.

### Accounting for time

Time is a big factor when I consider prices. Communication time,
research time, sketch time, communication time, sketch time, draw
time, communication time, research time, draw time. All this adds up.
While the actual drawing may take an hour, I might spend two hours on
other things.

So how much should you charge per hour? This depends a little more on
you. But consider how much rent costs, food, living, insurance, etc.
And how many hours you want to and can spend on commissions. Unless
you're contracted with a company, you're probably only doing a few
hours a week.

It's typical to charge a higher hourly rate for a small project than
it is for a big one. Small projects might take 5 hours, but there is
dead time inbetween.  You need to charge higher prices to fill that.
Larger projects might be 80 hours.  That provides stability and can be
"cheaper".

### Covering costs

I said this earlier, but don't forget material costs!! Pens, paper,
computer, electricity, programs, paint, website subscription. Paper
may only cost $.50 but also consider you had to take the time to get
it, or paid to have it shipped to you. That's more TIME to calculate.

### Rount it UP!

Alright, let's say you've got all this, you've calculated it and you
have a big number that you think accurately reflects your time and
material costs.

Round it up. UP.

Don't undervalue yourself.

## Lowering costs

Now you've a commission price that is Big, Juicy, Padded.

You look at me terrified, thinking, "Yoshi, no one is going to pay
that price ðŸ˜°" First off, yes, there are people that will because you
deserve it, and you are putting your soul into it. But also, heres how
to lower costs:

Keep that big number. Offer that big commission. The one with all the
time and effort and bedazzle. Keep offering it! And if you want, you
can also offer smaller commissions. BUT KEEP TIME IN MIND! Cheaper
commissions are cheaper because they take less time.

For example, pencil sketches of a bust can be a Cheaper commission.
Ink and watercolor full body with a background can be a Expensive
commission. The Expensive One can be a nice one people will save up
for. Or will draw people to your work even if they decide to purchase
the cheaper one.

## The high cost of low prices

I forgot to mention earlier, but sure, commission money is nice. But
when pricing, consider what you could be doing during that time
instead. Maybe making art that you can print and sell for more.
Playing video games, marketing yourself, working another job, being
with friends.

Your commission price is up to you, it's a very individual thing. But
also, your price helps contribute to the market's expectation. If you
charge too low, clients begin to expect that, and will continue to ask
other artists for lower prices. Instead, let's all charge accurately.

I'm not going to tell you what is a good price. But if you're charging
$15 for something that took you 3 hours, I am telling you right now,
THAT IS A BAD PRICE.

One last thing to consider: Charge for your heart.

For me, every piece of art I make, I put a bit of my heart into it.
It's a baby. When people buy my art, I think of it as a small contract
that they promise to take care of it. Price in a way that people
understand what they're getting.

## "But Yoshi, I'm not famous yet!"

I see a lot of questions along the vein of "But I'm so small, no one
is even buying my super underpriced commissions!"

Look, I have been there, it's tough, I know. And I'll tell you what
I did.

### Be patient

First, be patient and believe in yourself.

I still had a fulltime job when I started doing commissions. That
accounted for the money I needed, which meant even if I only had one
or 2 commissions every few months, I was still fine. And I could
afford to charge accurate prices.

In the down time, I created art that was examples of what my
commissions COULD be. My Inktober for 2017 was 31 days of drawings
that were basically commission samples. I sold those, and also had
a big portfolio of examples.

### Don't give up

Lastly, I just WORKED. Getting a social media following takes most
people a lot of effort and a lot of luck. There are amazing artists
out there with micro followings because they don't work at improving
their social media game. But you don't have to have a online presence
to $$$.

There are a lot of avenues to success, so just keep trying. All I'm
saying is, don't undervalue the work that you use to get there! ðŸ’– 

Don't believe in you, Believe in the *me* that believes in you!

## Choose your clients

I see people insisting they have to charge low to get work, and
believe me, I completely understand the desire to lowball in an effort
to get any money. But also consider: there is ALWAYS someone who can
do it cheaper than you, someone with a lower cost of living.

Consider your clients. There are Clients who are only interested in
getting the cheapest art they can. Competing with other artists to win
work from them, itâ€™s a losing game. Yes, these clients have costs to
consider, but their needs and life do not outweigh your needs and
life.

Itâ€™s better in the long run to invest in clients that are interested
in quality. Quality driven clients can still be frugal! Maybe theyâ€™ll
only buy one tiny print from you, but theyâ€™ll tell ALL their friends
about you! Clients glad to pay your prices exist, finding them is
hard.

Think of it this way: higher prices mean less work, less work means
more time, more time that can be used to promote yourself by creating
art YOU want to make, more promo means bigger client base, bigger base
means finding those that will pay higher prices ðŸ’–.

Itâ€™s hard to find good clients who will appreciate you if youâ€™re
spending all your time and energy placating clients who wonâ€™t pay you
what your time and effort is worth.

Generally speaking, clients who are only coming to you because youâ€™re
cheap will never promote you. Clients who respect your prices are the
ones who will tell everyone they know, which leads to a higher chance
of Big Work $$$.

I also see ppl saying "you can ask these prices because your popular!"
Okay butâ€” I was asking for reasonable prices when I was "unpopular".
I had almost no commissions. Instead, I spent that time on building my
social media and connecting with awesome ppl... and became "popular".

Very last note because I think itâ€™s worth mentioning. Generally
speaking, your goal should be to be hired by larger organizations that
can afford your huge prices. Commissions for individuals are usually
fill in money. For most artists, commissions arenâ€™t their main income

## Closing notes

In the end, Commissions are a great thing! I love getting art from
other artists that's just for me, or is about something I really care
about. I love drawing commissions for others, I end up feeling so
close to commissioners!  Let's all set our prices so we can keep doing
it!

---

[Yoshi Yoshitani][society6] is a professional illustrator currently
located in California.

If you liked this post, please consider supporting her by buying
something from her [Storenvy][storenvy] or [Society6][society6]
shop---there's some amazing stuff on there!

For freelance or contract enquiries, check out [her home
page][homepage-contact].


[original]: https://twitter.com/yoshisquared/status/990017190970540032
[society6]: https://society6.com/yoshiyoshitani
[storenvy]: https://yoshiyoshitani.storenvy.com
[homepage-contact]: https://www.yoshiyoshitani.com/about/
[homepage]: https://www.yoshiyoshitani.com/
